# SRE

* Ben Treynor Sloss, the senior VP overseeing technical operations at Google was the originator of the term “Site Reliability Engineering”.

## The Sysadmin Approach to Service Management

* Systems administrator, or sysadmin, approach involves assembling existing software components and deploying them to work together to produce a service. 
* Sysadmins are then tasked with running the service and responding to events and updates as they occur. 

### Advantages:
1. Easy to implement
2. Wide talent pool
3. An array of existing tools, software components etc.

### Disadvantages
1. Running a service with a team that relies on manual intervention for both change management and event handling becomes expensive as the service and/or traffic to the service grows, because the size of the team necessarily scales with the load generated by the system.
2. Admin and devlopement skillset silos leads to more expenditure.
3. Conflicts in admin and dev team, lack of trust! 
4. Dev and admin team have different goals.

## SRE

- SRE is fundamentally doing work that has historically been done by an operations team, but using engineers with software expertise, and banking on the fact that these engineers are inherently both predisposed to, and have the ability to, design and implement automation with software to replace human labor.
- The approach was first developed at Google in 2003.

* By design, it is crucial that SRE teams are focused on engineering. Without constant engineering, operations load increases and teams will need more people just to keep pace with the workload. 
*  Google places a 50% cap on the aggregate “ops” work for all SREs—tickets, on-call, manual tasks, etc. This cap ensures that the SRE team has enough time in their schedule to make the service stable and operable. _Often this means shifting some of the operations burden back to the development team, or adding staff to the team without assigning that team additional operational responsibilities._
* And once an SRE team is in place, their potentially unorthodox approaches to service management require strong management support.

___

### DEVOPS OR SRE?
The term “DevOps” emerged in industry in late 2008 and is still in a state of flux. Its core principles—involvement of the IT function in each phase of a system’s design and development, heavy reliance on automation versus human effort, the application of engineering practices and tools to operations tasks—are consistent with many of SRE’s principles and practices. One could view DevOps as a generalization of several core SRE principles to a wider range of organizations, management structures, and personnel. One could equivalently view SRE as a specific implementation of DevOps with some idiosyncratic extensions.

___


### Tenets of SRE
* In general, an SRE team is responsible for the:
    - availability, 
    - latency, 
    - performance, 
    - efficiency, 
    - change management, 
    - monitoring, 
    - emergency response, 
    - and capacity planning of their service(s). 


### Error budget

* A service that’s 99.99% available is 0.01% unavailable. 
* That permitted 0.01% unavailability is the service’s error budget. We can spend the budget on anything we want, as long as we don’t overspend it.

* We can spend the budget on anything we want, as long as we don’t overspend it.
* So how do we want to spend the error budget? The development team wants to launch features and attract new users. Ideally, we would spend all of our error budget taking risks with things we launch in order to launch them quickly. 

* The use of an error budget resolves the structural conflict of incentives between development and SRE. 
* SRE’s goal is no longer “zero outages”; rather, SREs and product developers aim to spend the error budget getting maximum feature velocity.

### Monitoring

There are three kinds of valid monitoring output:

#### 1.Alerts
Signify that a human needs to take action immediately in response to something that is either happening or about to happen, in order to improve the situation.
#### 2.Tickets
Signify that a human needs to take action, but not immediately. The system cannot automatically handle the situation, but if a human takes action in a few days, no damage will result.
#### 3.Logging
No one needs to look at this information, but it is recorded for diagnostic or forensic purposes. The expectation is that no one reads logs unless something else prompts them to do so.